Group: 10
Character:
  Lawyers Mr. Smith and U.S. Attorney Makely (consider the role of both lawyers as one)
Questions
1.    Summarize the circumstances around your character’s participation in this event.
        Mr. Smith
          The Attorney to Vandivier
          Advised that while he was technically not guilty of committing a fraud,
            he was definitely part of a conspiracy to defraud.
          Advised meeting with US Attorney Roger Makely in Dayton

        US Attorney Makely

2.    What did your character do that was ethical?
        He told his client the reality of the situation
3.    What did your character do that was unethical?
4.    Why did your character act as he or she did, and was it justified?
        He acted as mandated by his profession
5.    If you had been this character, what would you have done differently to resolve this situation?


Relevant Quotes:
"Listening to Lawson's concerns about possible dangers associated with the brake convinced Vandivier that he should contact his attorney, Mr. Smith [note: in the original story, his lawyer is unnamed], which he did before the day was out. "[My attorney] advised me that, while I was technically not guilty of committing a fraud, I was certainly part of a conspiracy to defraud." Vandivier's attorney also suggested that Vandivier meet with U.S. Attorney Roger Makely in Dayton. On his return, Vandivier told Lawson that his attorney had advised him that both he and Lawson were guilty of conspiracy; not that they might be, but that they were. Fearing conspiracy charges, Lawson asked Vandivier if he would arrange a meeting for him with Vandivier's attorney, Mr. Smith. "

LAwson-
" that I felt that I needed to talk to somebody about it, because it was a pretty serious situation, and the only person I could think of was to consult an attorney [Mr. Smith], and then he advised me to talk to the FBI. "

"Several days later, Lawson left on another LTV visit. While Lawson was in Dallas, Vandivier's attorney called and said that on the advice of Makely, he had arranged an interview with the Dayton office of the FBI. Vandivier's attorney, Mr. Smith, arranged a meeting for him with FBI agent Joseph Hathaway in Dayton, Ohio. Hathaway told Vandivier not to discuss his concerns about the ethical misconduct at Goodrich's Troy Plant, and asked Vandivier if Lawson would corroborate his story. Vandivier assured him Lawson would. When Lawson returned, Vandivier described his visit with his attorney, and what the attorney said. Lawson, taking Vandivier at his word, and without approaching anyone in the Goodrich hierarchy, met with Vandivier's attorney, and both Vandivier and Lawson met with FBI agent Hathaway. Around the same time, Mr. Bruce Tremblay, Systems Group Leader for Landing Gear in Airframe Subsystem Directorate, Aeronautical Systems Division of the Air Force Systems Command, requested the raw data for Goodrich's Qualification Report Q- 6031. Goodrich declined Tremblay's request for raw data, stating that it was considered proprietary information. As noted by Tremblay, such a refusal was rare; however, Goodrich kept data in-house as a long- established policy, and gave Air Force officials the opportunity to review the raw data at the Troy Plant."
